"Mankatha" , "Vinayak Mahadevan, a corrupt ACP of Maharashtra Police, is suspended for having saved a smuggler Faizal from encounter killing.

Kamal Ekambaram, a police officer, commits suicide due to leaks of his IPL gambling plans. ACP Prithviraj takes charge to end the betting scandals in IPL cricket in Mumbai. Prithvi then reveals that Kamal faked his death in a secret mission to draw attention to the betting scandals and returned under the name Praveen Kumar. Arumuga Chettiyar, an influential yet illegal business dealer and Faizal's boss, owns "Golden Theatres" in Mumbai, which has been converted into a gambling den and is the front for all his illegal businesses. Chettiyar uses his links with crime bosses in Mumbai and tries to route through his old theater, a cash of over to be used in betting.

Vinayak is introduced to Chettiyar through his girlfriend Sanjana, who is in love with Vinayak, but Vinayak only pretends to love her. Sumanth, a goon working for Chettiyar, hatches a conspiracy to rob the money with the company of his friends: Ganesh, a local SI; Mahat, who owns a bar in Mumbai and Mahat's friend Prem, an IIT graduate. Vinayak befriends the boys at Sumanth's marriage with Suchithra. One late evening, Vinayak meets Prem, who becomes inebriated and reveals their heist plan. Vinayak starts spying on them and confronts them on the day of the planned heist. The four take him in, promising him a fifth of the share. However, Vinayak has other plans as he wants to kill his accomplices and take the money. He promises to help them and divide it between them. After looting the money, they leave the money in an abandoned godown.

Later, all of them celebrate the turn of events at Mahat's bar, but Sumanth is identified at the party by Faizal and is later caught by him. Sumanth is cornered by Chettiyar, who orders Faizal to kill him for his treachery, but is rescued in time by Ganesh and Vinayak, and the trio escape from the hideout, taking Chettiyar hostage. While driving back to the godown, Vinayak finds Sanjana on the way and brutally shoves Chettiyar out of the vehicle in front of her. Sanjana is engulfed in grief when she learns of Vinayak's true intentions. Upon reaching the godown, they discover that Mahat and Prem had escaped with the cash and are accompanied by Sona, another woman who loved Vinayak. The three men are confronted by Faizal and Chettiyar's men, but manage to evade them and escape. Later, Sumanth turns against Vinayak after he discovers that his wife had been kidnapped by Chettiyar.

After a brief scuffle, Sumanth runs into Prithvi, who takes him into custody and rescues his wife on the condition that he turns approver and reveal everything. However, Sumanth is killed when Prithvi's wife Sabitha is kidnapped and threatened by Vinayak. Vinayak learns about Mahat and Prem's whereabouts through Ganesh, and along with him, starts pursuing them. Prithvi and the others follow suit, and all of them are holed up in a highway resort with the money. A sequence of events leads to the murders of the gang members one by one — Mahat is killed by Sona, who gets killed by Vinayak and Prem gets killed by Prithvi — with Ganesh and Vinayak remaining alive. A final fight ensues between Vinayak and Prithvi. At the final moment, Praveen throws a gun at Prithvi, who shoots Vinayak and a huge explosion rocks the shack, seemingly ending the fight.

After several days, the police receive information about Ganesh living in Thailand. Praveen arrives there, but comes across Vinayak. Praveen confronts him and calls up Prithvi to inform him of Vinayak's presence, but it is revealed that Prithvi and Vinayak have been best friends since their college days and took police training together. They had learnt about the betting money scheme by Chettiyar and operated the plan together, including Vinayak's faked death. Ganesh had also been killed by Vinayak as a part of the plan, and Prithvi and Vinayak escaped the explosion with the, each taking as their share. Prithvi informs Vinayak that their money is safe in the Bank of England and asks him to deal with Praveen. Vinayak snatches Praveen's gun and holds him at gunpoint declaring that the game is over.." , "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UKTfK7Kw3lidkN60mg_dmGoWSUthR5ZA/view?usp=drive_link" , "https://th.bing.com/th/id/OIP.CEY2cr433K1w4Bc067_V7AHaKe?w=115&h=180&c=7&r=0&o=7&dpr=1.1&pid=1.7&rm=3"
